Update Contributing.md to reflect post-IESG world (#4824)
quicwg/base-drafts: CONTRIBUTING.md

# QUIC version 1 is done

The base-drafts repository is the historical home of the QUIC version 1
specifications that were written by the QUIC Working Group.

The set of documents are:

* QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and Secure Transport
* Version-Independent Properties of QUIC
* Using TLS to Secure QUIC
* QUIC Loss Detection and Congestion Control
* Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 3 (HTTP/3)

> * QPACK: Header Compression for HTTP/3

Reviewer: Links?

**The QUIC Working Group welcomes discussion about new versions of QUIC, and
new extensions to QUIC. See [Engaging with the QUIC
community](#engaging-with-the-quic-community) for guidance**

**Be aware that all contributions fall under the "[NOTE WELL](#note-well)" terms
outlined below and our [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct) applies.**

## Post-IESG Process

The consensus of the QUIC Working Group is reflected in the QUIC version 1
documents, which has been confirmed through the IETF Last Call and IESG review
stages. The goal of the Post-IESG process is to minimize the risk of changes
invalidating the established consensus in these documents. Consequently, design
changes will no longer be considered unless they relate to severe security,
deployment or implementation problems. If you believe you have identified such a
problem, please raise the issue on the [Working Group mailing
list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/quic) with a clear marking in the
`Subject:` line e.g. "New Issue ...".

Any change will be subject to careful review and discussion, which might involve
the editors, chairs, Working Group, and our Area Director.

> ### Resolving Issues

Reviewer: I would keep cutting and just remove the issues and pull requests bit from here.

# QUIC version 1 is done

The base-drafts repository is the historical home of the QUIC version 1

> specifications that were written by the QUIC Working Group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
specifications that were written by the IETF QUIC Working Group.
```

The set of documents are:

* [QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and Secure Transport](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-quic-transport)
* [Version-Independent Properties of QUIC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-quic-invariants)
* [Using TLS to Secure QUIC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-quic-tls)
* [QUIC Loss Detection and Congestion Control](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-quic-recovery)
* [Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 3 (HTTP/3)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-quic-http)

> * [QPACK: Header Compression for HTTP/3](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-quic-qpack)

Reviewer 2: The URLs should eventually be changed to the archival URLs at rfc-editor.org.

Reviewer: I think that we should create our own renderings of the final RFCs and point to those.  The official renderings are terrible.

> **All of the documents have been approved for publication as RFC. We will no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**All of the documents have been approved for publication as RFCs. We will no
```

**The QUIC Working Group welcomes discussion about new versions of QUIC, and
new extensions to QUIC. See [Engaging with the QUIC
community](#engaging-with-the-quic-community) for guidance**

**Be aware that all contributions fall under the "[NOTE WELL](#note-well)" terms
outlined below and our [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct) applies.**

## Post-IESG Process

The consensus of the QUIC Working Group is reflected in the QUIC version 1
documents, which has been confirmed through the IETF Last Call and IESG review
stages. The goal of the Post-IESG process is to minimize the risk of changes
invalidating the established consensus in these documents. Consequently, design
changes will no longer be considered unless they relate to severe security,
deployment or implementation problems. If you believe you have identified such a
problem, please raise the issue on the [Working Group mailing
list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/quic) with a clear marking in the
`Subject:` line e.g. "New Issue ...".

Any change will be subject to careful review and discussion, which might involve
the editors, chairs, Working Group, and our Area Director.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add:
```suggestion
After this review and discussion, errata may need to be filed for the published RFCs,
or the Working Group may otherwise address such valid issues.
```

## Following Discussion

The Working Group has a few venues for discussion:

* We plan to meet at all [IETF meetings](https://www.ietf.org/meeting/) for the
  foreseeable future, and possibly hold interim meetings between them as
  required. Agendas, minutes, and presentations are available in our [meeting
  materials repository](https://github.com/quicwg/wg-materials) and the
  [official proceedings](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/quic/meetings/).

* Our [mailing list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/quic) is used for
  most communication, including notifications of meetings, new drafts, consensus
  calls and other business, as well as issue discussion.

* We maintain several repositories in our GitHub organization
  [Github](https://github.com/quicwg/). Specific issues are discussed on the
  relevant issues list. If you don't want to use Github to follow these
  discussions, you can subscribe to the [issue announce
  list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/quic-issues).

To be active in the Working Group, you can participate in any of these places.
Most activity takes place on the mailing list, but if you just want to comment
on and raise issues, that's fine too.

> 

Reviewer 2: I'll note that we're not mentioning the Slack channel here - should we?

Author: good idea, done.

# Contributing to QUIC base-drafts

The base-drafts repository is the home of the following QUIC Working Group documents:

* Invariants
* Transport
* TLS
* HTTP/3
* QPACK

> * Recovery

Reviewer 3: Replace these with document names?

> **All of the documents have now passed IESG review stage. We will no longer consider Design changes or substantial Editorial changes unless they relate to severe security, interoperabily or deployment problems. See [Post-IESG Process](#post-iesg-process) below for further information** 

Reviewer: Maybe instead:

> All of the documents have been approved for publication as RFC. ...

That might be more accessible to people who aren't familiar with our processes.

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# Engaging with the QUIC community

> The QUIC Working Group scope of work is described in our charter and it extends beyond the development of the documents held in this repository. Anyone is welcome to contribute to the QUIC community; you don't have to join the Working Group, because there is no "membership" -- anyone who participates in the work **is** a part of the QUIC Working Group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The scope of work in the QUIC Working Group is described in our charter and extends beyond the development of the documents in this repository. Anyone is welcome to contribute to the QUIC Working Group; you don't have to join the Working Group, because there is no "membership" -- anyone who participates in the work **is** a part of the QUIC Working Group.
```

> Before doing so, it's a good idea to familiarize yourself with our [charter](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/quic/about/). If you're new to IETF work, you may also want to read the [Tao of the IETF](https://www.ietf.org/tao.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before doing so, please familiarize yourself with our [charter](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/quic/about/). If you are new to IETF work, you may also want to read the [Tao of the IETF](https://www.ietf.org/tao.html).
```

## Following Discussion

The Working Group has a few venues for discussion:

> * We plan to meet at all [IETF meetings](https://www.ietf.org/meeting/) for the foreseeable future, and possibly hold interim meetings between them if required. Agendas, minutes and presentations are available in our [meeting materials repository](https://github.com/quicwg/wg-materials) and the [official proceedings](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/quic/meetings/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* We plan to meet at all [IETF meetings](https://www.ietf.org/meeting/) for the foreseeable future, and hold interim meetings between them as required. Agendas, minutes, and presentations are available in our [meeting materials repository](https://github.com/quicwg/wg-materials) and the [official proceedings](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/quic/meetings/).
```

place on the mailing list, but if you just want to comment on and raise issues, that's fine too.

### Post-IESG Process

> The Working Group has built consensus that is reflected in base-draft documents, which has been confirmed through the IETF Last Call and IESG review stages modulo any critical undiscovered issues. Design changes will no longer be considered unless there are severe security, deployment or implementation problems. modulo any open (or undiscovered) issues. The goal of the Post-IESG proces is to minimise changes that invalidate the accumulated consesus, which risks returning us to the pre Working Group Last Call stage of standardisation.

Reviewer: I would drop the two "modulo..." bits.  Especially the second.

> The Working Group has built consensus that is reflected in base-draft documents, which has been confirmed through the IETF Last Call and IESG review stages modulo any critical undiscovered issues. Design changes will no longer be considered unless there are severe security, deployment or implementation problems. modulo any open (or undiscovered) issues. The goal of the Post-IESG proces is to minimise changes that invalidate the accumulated consesus, which risks returning us to the pre Working Group Last Call stage of standardisation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The consensus of the Working Group is reflected in the base-draft documents, which has been confirmed through the IETF Last Call and IESG review stages. The goal of the Post-IESG process is to minimize the risk of changes invalidating the established consensus in these documents. Consequently, design changes and substantial editorial changes will no longer be considered unless they relate to severe security, deployment, or implementation problems.
```

> In this process, all required parties will discuss each design or major editorial issue and proposed resolution (ideally based upon a Pull Request that specifies the exact changes to be made). Chairs will judge consensus, labelling the issue as `has-consensus`.

Reviewer: I think that you want to just say "Any change will be subject to careful review and discussion, which might involve the editors, chairs, working group, and our area director."  Leaving aside the question of how much discussion, which we might vary based on what the change is.

The `has-consensus` piece can go.

> In this process, all required parties will discuss each design or major editorial issue and proposed resolution (ideally based upon a Pull Request that specifies the exact changes to be made). Chairs will judge consensus, labelling the issue as `has-consensus`.

Reviewer 3: For clarity, can you list the "required parties"?

> ### Raising Issues

Reviewer: I think that you might want to say outright that this repo is closed for business and that new issues should be first discussed by the working group.  Then set expectations: say that we will only consider the most serious issues that might jeopardize the successful deployment of QUIC, such as serious security flaws or bugs without workarounds.

> We will no longer consider Design changes or substantial Editorial changes unless they relate to severe security, interoperabily or deployment problems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We will no longer consider design changes or substantial editorial changes unless they relate to severe security, deployment, or implementation problems.
```

> We use our [Github](https://github.com/quicwg/) issues lists to track items for discussion and
> their resolution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We will continue to use our [Github](https://github.com/quicwg/) issues lists to track items for discussion and their resolution.
```

commits will only be responded to with best effort, and may not be seen.

### Resolving Issues

Issues will be labeled by the Chairs as either `editorial` or `design`:

> * **Design** issues require discussion and consensus among the Working Group, Area Director and IESG. This discussion can happen both in the issue and on the [Working Group mailing list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/quic), and all other relavent mailing lists.

Reviewer: Oxford comma.

And again, I would say **Any issue** here.

> * **Design** issues require discussion and consensus among the Working Group, Area Director and IESG. This discussion can happen both in the issue and on the [Working Group mailing list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/quic), and all other relavent mailing lists.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Design** issues require discussion and consensus among the Working Group, the Area Director, and the IESG. This discussion can happen in the issue, on the [Working Group mailing list](https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/quic), or other relevant mailing lists.
```

> * **Editorial** issues that or minor or unsubstantial can be dealt with by the editor(s) without consensus or notification. Larger editorial changes require discussion and and consensus among the Working Group, Area Director and IESG.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Editorial** issues that are minor can be dealt with by the editor(s) without consensus or notification. Larger editorial changes require discussion and and consensus among the Working Group, the Area Director, and the IESG.
```

> The open design issues in the issues list are those that we are currently discussing, or plan to discuss. They can be discussed on the mailing list or the issue itself.

Reviewer: We have none of these, so I think it would be best to avoid mention of it.

When a design issue is `closed`, it implies that the issue has a proposed resolution that is reflected in the drafts; if a `closed` design issue is labeled with `has-consensus`, it means that the incorporated resolution has Working Group consensus.

### Late-Stage Process

The late-stage process attempts to reflect the Working Group's current consensus in the drafts; the latest draft reflects that consensus, modulo any open (or undiscovered) issues. The goal for a late-stage draft is to reduce unnecessary design changes in the protocol, thereby aiding reviewers and assuring that the drafts accurately reflect consensus.

In this process, the Working Group will discuss each design issue, and the Chairs will judge consensus, labelling the issue as `has-consensus` (ideally based upon a Pull Request that specifies the exact changes to be made).

Only after that will the change be merged and the issue be closed.

The drafts currently in the late stage are:

* Invariants
* Transport
* TLS
* HTTP/3
* QPACK
* Recovery

> ![diagram of the late stage workflow](workflow.png "Late Stage Workflow")

Reviewer: You can delete this diagram here too.
